Release notes for version 2.140.x (#9248)
OmniSharp/omnisharp-vscode: CHANGELOG.md

## C# Language Support

### Selection Range

The LSP now supports **Selection Range** (`Expand Selection` / `Shrink Selection`), enabling smart expanding and shrinking of text selections based on the syntactic structure of your C# code. For example, you can progressively select from a variable name → the containing statement → the containing block → the method → the class, all with keyboard shortcuts. ([roslyn#82809](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/pull/82809))

### Type Hierarchy and Call Hierarchy

Two powerful navigation features are now available for C# in VS Code:

- **Type Hierarchy** lets you explore the full inheritance chain of any class, interface, or struct — navigate through base types and derived types without leaving the editor. ([roslyn#83011](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/pull/83011))
- **Call Hierarchy** lets you trace incoming and outgoing calls for any method, making it easy to understand how your code connects. Interface implementation categories for overrides are correctly shown, so you get an accurate picture of the full call chain. ([roslyn#82865](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/pull/82865))

> ### File-based apps: automatic discovery and improved editing

Reviewer: @DamianEdwards could you please take a look at this section also and let us know if the items covered and the way we are explaining things to users seems reasonable.

Reviewer: Looks like Damian is OOF, I wouldn't block on this

> File-based C# apps (standalone `.cs` files that run without a project file) now have a significantly improved experience. A new `dotnet.fileBasedApps.enableAutomaticDiscovery` setting enables the language server to automatically detect standalone C# files and provide full language support — completions, diagnostics, and navigation — without requiring a `.csproj`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
File-based C# apps (standalone `.cs` files that run without a project file) can now be [automatically discovered](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/blob/main/docs/features/file-based-programs-vscode.md#automatic-discovery) in the opened workspace folders. Set `dotnet.fileBasedApps.enableAutomaticDiscovery` to `true` to use it. This is particularly recommended when using the new `#:include` directive for multi-file-based apps.
```

> File-based C# apps (standalone `.cs` files that run without a project file) can now be [automatically discovered](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/blob/main/docs/features/file-based-programs-vscode.md#automatic-discovery) in the opened workspace folders. Set `dotnet.fileBasedApps.enableAutomaticDiscovery` to `true` to use it. This is particularly recommended when using the new `#:include` directive for multi-file-based apps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
C# file-based apps (standalone `.cs` files that run without a project file) can now be [automatically discovered](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn/blob/main/docs/features/file-based-programs-vscode.md#automatic-discovery) in the opened workspace folders. Set `dotnet.fileBasedApps.enableAutomaticDiscovery` to `true` to use it. This is particularly recommended when using the new `#:include` directive to enable file-based apps made up of multiple `.cs` files.
```

Beyond discovery, the editing experience for file-based apps has been refined:

- **Transitive `#:` directives** are now handled correctly, so transitive dependencies resolve properly.
- **`#:` directives are preserved during formatting**, preventing the formatter from mangling file-based app metadata.

> - **Completions for `#:include` directives** help you discover available directives as you type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Completions for `#:include` directives** help you discover available files as you type.
```
